---
title: 'Prepaid Billing FAQs'
sidebarTitle: 'Prepaid Billing FAQs'
---

_Last Updated: February 05, 2025_

This document addresses common questions asked to the SaladCloud support team about our migration to prepaid billing. If
you have additional questions, please reach out to support at [cloud@salad.com](mailto:cloud@salad.com).

## How does SaladCloud's prepaid system work?

Prepaid credits are used to run workloads on SaladCloud, offering two recharge options: automatic and manual. With
automatic recharges, you can set a predefined credit amount to automatically top up your balance when it falls below a
minimum threshold. Manual recharges allow for one-time credit purchases of up to $10,000. Regardless of the chosen
method, it is the customer’s responsibility to maintain a positive credit balance. Failure to do so may result in
restricted workloads and API usage if the organization’s credits are fully depleted. For more information, view the
prepaid billing workflows [here](/products/sce/container-groups/billing-and-pricing/billing#prepaid-billing).

## What’s the difference between Auto and Manual Recharge?

Auto Recharge enables you to automatically top up your balance with a predefined credit amount whenever it falls below a
set threshold. In contrast, manual recharging does not include an automatic threshold; you must manually purchase
additional credits each time your balance reaches $0.

## How do I know if Auto or Manual Recharge is better for me?

For production workloads, SaladCloud strongly recommends enabling Auto Recharge to maintain a positive credit balance
and ensure uninterrupted service. For testing or non-production workloads, such as long-running batch jobs, either
manual or Auto Recharge options may be suitable. Auto Recharge includes a built-in grace period to address potential
payment method issues, allowing time to resolve errors before a shutdown occurs. However, if your organization is not
enrolled in Auto Recharge, you risk an immediate shutdown if your credits are fully depleted.

## What should I set my automatic recharge threshold to?

We recommend setting your recharge threshold to 10% of your recharge amount (e.g., a $1,000 top-up should have a $100
recharge threshold). As your credit usage increases, we suggest adjusting your threshold proportionally to ensure
seamless account management. Higher thresholds and less frequent recharges help minimize the risk of credit card errors
that could disrupt performance.

## Can I set my automatic recharge to $0?

Yes, you can, but it is not recommended. The processing and application of new credits are not instantaneous, meaning
that even if the billing process is executed immediately, your instances could be paused until the new credits are fully
applied.

## What happens if my credit balance reaches $0 before I manually recharge?

Your active instances will automatically be paused until another manual recharge occurs, resulting in a positive credit
balance.

## How do I make sure I don’t experience any service disruption?

To ensure you don’t experience a services disruption, you should keep a valid payment method on file and ensure you have
a positive credit balance. The best way to ensure you keep your credit balance positive is to enable Auto Recharge on
your account. If we detect an error with an Auto or Manual Recharge event, we will immediately send you an email
notification with directions for how to resolve the issue.

## What happens if I have remaining credits after a test or a batch job on SaladCloud?

All credits purchases are final and expire 12 months from purchase date.

## What should I do if I've previously purchased an AppSumo lifetime deal?

If you've previously purchased a lifetime deal from AppSumo, no action is required on your account. Each month, your
account will automatically receive the transcription audio hours included in your purchase. If you use all your credits
before the next monthly renewal, SaladCloud will restrict your access until the new credits are available. To prevent
any interruption in service, you can add Auto Recharge or make a one-time Manual Recharge to purchase additional credits
for your organization; however, this is optional.

## Who do I reach out to with other questions?

Please reach out to support via [cloud@salad.com](mailto:cloud@salad.com).
